# Repo for Disruptive Devops module assignment

## Overview

This repo contains the artefacts from the ATU Disruptive DevOps research project where an exploration of automating end-to-end Playwright tests was undertaken using AI models. The DevOps piece of this project was developing a resuable GitHub Action which could complete a target task (in this case, generation of E2E tests) which ties into the DevOps principle of automation.

Note: the custom GitHub action triggered in this repo can be found at the [ai-playwright-action](https://github.com/JohnDennehy101/ai-playwright-action) repo.

The best performing model was Claude Sonnet with MCP enabled (92% of generated tests passing).

Best performing non-MCP model was GPT-5.4 (87.5% of generating tests passing on refined prompts).

Best performing open-source model was Qwen 32B Instruct (71% on best-performing refined chain-of-thought prompt, 64% of generated tests passing on average on refined prompts)

## Pre-requisites for running locally

- Node.js installed (anything > v18)
- Python (ideally >= 3..11)
- API keys with env variables set in terminal if inferencing the closed source models
  - `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` - for interacting with Claude Models and MCP
  - `OPENAI_API_KEY` - for the GPT models
  - `DEEPSEEK_API_KEY` - for DeepSeek chat
  - `HF_API_KEY` - For Hugging Face Inference API (For open-source Qwen 32B)
- Playwright browsers - `npx playwright install`
- For MCP - `npm install -g @playwright/mcp`

## Structure

Here are some key folders for guidance around the project

- **app/** - the demo React note taking application against which E2E Playwright tests should be generated
- **scripts/** - mix of scripts used for evaluation of outputs, actually generating AI inferencing (MCP, OpenAI, DeepSeek for example). Also includes script for generating graphs used in final report.
- **model_outputs/** - raw output from AI model runs (standard format used to enable easy comparison)
- **eval_outputs/** - Results from running the AI generated tests with Playwright (captures screenshots, traces, standard error and standard output for full view of run for analysis)
- **figures/** - Where graphs are generated after running `generate_graphs.py`
- **versions/** - Contains the four sample changes to the app code to generate sample diffs that the action could extract and provide as context to the AI models within the prompts
- **notebooks/** - Contains the Jupyter notebook used to run AI inferencing on Google colab (used that to test a lot of the Hugging Face open-source models - used A100 GPU on there with quantised models to ensure they loaded successfully)
- **.claude/** - Playwright agents generated this directory. Left included as part of the agents exploration (these files were left at default as auto-generated by the Playwright tool)
- **.github/workflows/** - The `ai-playwright.yml` action triggers the custom Github action on pull requests to extract the diff, complete AI inferencing for test generation etc. The `provision.yml` and `cleanup.yml` workflows are related to GPU provisioning on DigitalOcean. Unfortunately, the availability of GPUs there seems to be non-existent recently so I wasn't able to test this with the final models (but it worked when available a few months ago at the start of the project for loading in the open-source Hugging Face models).

## Supported AI Inferencing Approaches

3 approaches for inferencing are supported:

- Self-hosting open-source Hugging Face model on GPU, exposing for inference via FastAPI
- Hugging Face Inference API used to interact with the target open-source model
- Anthropic API used for interacting with Claude model for inferencing

### GPU usage - Self-Hosting

`provision.yml` workflow provisioned a GPU on Digital Ocean (this was working a few weeks ago).

$200 in credits on Digital Ocean as part of Github student developer pack was useful but GPU availability is an issue across many platforms.

### Hugging Face Inference API

API call made to Hugging Face (in this workflow, Qwen 32B used as best-performing open-source model in the ones tested).

### Anthropic API with MCP

API call made to Anthropic for Sonnet model. Provided Playwright MCP server to the model so that it can interact with the application and locate relevant information such as relevant selectors, app functionality etc. This approach was best performing model by far across all runs.

## Triggering Inferencing

Create a pull request in this repo with changes to Home.tsx file within `/app/src/pages/` directory. The AI action will run (defaults to Anthropic as the best-performing) and if generated tests are successful, will commit new test file within the repo and leave a comment on the pull request with the findings.

## Scripts

### Generating Model Outputs

Used to work with the closed-source models. Easy to inference once an account is opened with each provider, credit added and API token generated.

#### Generating Claude outputs

```
python scripts/generate_claude.py
```

#### Generating Copilot / OpenAI outputs

Using endpoint associated with Copilot account (limited to 50 requests per day)

```
python scripts/generate_copilot.py
```

To directly use OpenAI (API key needed with credit applied to account)

Running with default configured `gpt-4o` model

```
python scripts/generate_copilot.py --openai
```

Running with `gpt-5.4` model

```
python scripts/generate_copilot.py --refined --openai --model gpt-5.4

```

#### Generating Deepseek API outputs

Set API key in terminal

```
export DEEPSEEK_API_KEY="REPLACE WITH YOUR KEY VALUE"
```

Then run the script

```
python scripts/generate_deepseek.py --refined
```

#### Using Model Context Protocol (MCP) for test generation

```
npm install -g @playwright/mcp
```

```
@playwright/mcp
```

```
python scripts/generate_mcp.py
```

#### Using Playwright agents for tests

```
npx playwright init-agents --loop=claude
```

As the agents use the prompts generated by storybook for each agent,
it only needs to be run once per change type

```
python scripts/generate_playwright_agents.py --filter-prompt zero-shot --filter-scenario diff-and-source-code
```

### Running AI Generated Tests Locally With Playwright

#### Run all model outputs

```
python scripts/run_ai_model_output_playwright_tests.py --run-tests
```

#### Filter by model

```
python scripts/run_ai_model_output_playwright_tests.py --run-tests --filter-model claude
```

### Analysis of Playwright test runs

#### Analysing test runs

Generate summary

```
python scripts/generate_summary.py
```

Generate error summary analysis

```
python scripts/generate_error_analysis.py
```

#### Generating graphs from evaluation runs

```
python scripts/generate_graphs.py
```
